Troubleshooting skills with network protocols such as DNS, TCP/IP, SMTP & SNMP.
Hands on experience with ticketing tools such as Remedy, BMC service desk express and Quick base.
Administration of networking devices such as Routers and switches.
Extensive implementation and troubleshooting experience under Client Server Systems.
Experience in writing basic Shell scripts using ksh, bash, perl, for process automation of databases, applications, backup and scheduling.
Strong technical background in Storage, Disk Management, Logical Volume Management (LVM) and logical partitioning.
Installation, configuration and maintenance of Sun and HP servers.
Management of User accounts, System security, change management and performance tuning.
Installation of SSL certificates Linux servers.
Monitoring and administering Sun-Solaris servers and Red hat Linux servers.
Installation of Patches, Hardware, software's and Firmware upgrades.
Ability to handle multiple tasks and work independently as well as a team member.
Provided on-call support and worked with Vendors on system issues and bugs for its resolution.
Proficient in System administration, System planning, co-ordination, commissioning, setting up security hierarchy and capacity planning.
Worked on flexible hours for production, backup and on-call support for 24/7 environments.


Devices:
Linux (RedHat 5/6), Sun Solaris (10/9/8), IBM AIX 5.x, Windows 2000/2003 Sever, VMWARE ESX/ESXi
Dell Poweredge Series, HP DL Series servers, Sun Fire Servers - E25k, E15k, 12k, E280R, E480R, V240,420R, V440, V480, V490, V880,V890 and 4800
Data Centre Servers - E250, E450, E3000 and E3500
Tape Libraries - Sun StorEdge L20/L40/L60, L180 and Storagetek's 9840
A/B/C Fibrechannel
Arrays - Sun StorEdge 3130, A1000/D1000, EMC DMX 800 and 1000

Languages:
Shell scripting, PERL, C, C++

Networking
TCP/IP, DNS, NFS, NIS, SSH, DHCP, Cisco Routers / Switches and LAN

Tools
Sun Cluster 3.2, VERITAS Netbackup 6.0, VERITAS Storage Foundation Suite, Solaris Volume Manager, sendmail

Web Technologies
Lotus Domino 5 / 6, Apache 2.0, Weblogic 8.1/10, WebSphere, JBoss, IPlanet, IIS, HIS.

Skills:

Setup and maintained NFS, NIS, and TCP/IP network, configured the systems for TCP/IP Networking with the existing LAN, setting up SSH and SCP features between SUN systems and other Red Hat/UNIX hosts.
Maintained network and data security, maintained security compliance policies on the OS for SOX and internal audits.
Installed and configured VMware ESX server instances for virtual server setup and deployment. Responsible for creating VMware virtual guests running Solaris, Linux, Windows.
Integrated the Linux environment with Active Directory providing a Single Sign On (SSO) solution.
Using rsyslog & mysql, deployed a custom syslog reporting solution for system alerts and notifications.
Deployed Redhat Satellite Server with custom repositories to provide a stable management solution for the Linux environment.
Installed, maintained and finetuned the Apache-Tomcat serverand Websphere Application Server in Linux Platform
Created Bash/Korn shell scripts to monitor system resources and system maintenance.
Wrote Perl and Python scripts to generate statistics and monitor processes.
Deployed Active/Active MySQL clusters using Redhat Cluster Suite for supporting internal applications built on the LAMP stack.
Automated system management tasks like user account creation, file system size monitoring, monitor system resources and system maintenance using Shell, and Perl scripts.
Installed, configured & upgraded Websphere and provided extensive support in code deploy, change management and application level troubleshooting for the Dev, Test, Pre-Prod & Production environment. Deployed applications (EAR/WAR) files on multiple Servers/Clusters and maintained Load balancing.
Worked with DBAs on installation of Oracle database, RDBMS database, restoration and log generation. Perform security patching of Linux servers
Environment: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4.x,5.x, Sun Solaris 8,9,10, VERITAS Cluster Server, Veritas Volume Manager, Oracle 11G, HP UX, IBM AIX, HP Proliant DL 385, 585 Weblogic, Oracle RAC/ASM, MS Windows 2003 server.
Decommissioning of the old servers and keeping track or decommissioned and new servers using inventory list.
Monitored System Activities like CPU, Memory, Disk and Swap space usage to avoid any performance issues.
Software package and patch administration, involving adding and removing software packages and updating patches
Handling problems or requirements as per the ticket (Request Tracker) created.
Configuration and administration of LDAP, NFS and NIS in Linux and also implemented Samba for sharing of resources between Linux and Windows environments.

Environment: Sun Solaris 10/9/8, Linux 5/4/3, Oracle 10g, SUN Servers, SUN Fires, Linux, Jump Start, Shell Script, Autosys, Veritas Volume Manager (VVM), LDAP, EMC Storage SAN, Veritas Cluster Server (VCS), VMware servers, jboss,Websphere.

Installation, configuration, support and security implementation on following services:DHCP, SSH, SCP.
Configuration and administration of NFS and Samba in Linux and Solaris.
Maintained and monitored all of company\'s servers' operating system and application patch level, disk space and memory usage, user activities on day-to-day basis.

Installations of HP Open view, monitoring tool, in more than 300 servers.
Attended calls related to customer queries and complaints, offered solutions to them.
Worked with monitoring tools such as Nagios and HP Openview.

Responsible for setting cron jobs on the servers.
Decommissioning of the old servers and keeping track or decommissioned and new servers using inventory list.
Handling problems or requirements as per the ticket (Request Tracker) created.
Participated in on-call rotation to provide 24X7 technical supports.
Configuration and troubleshooting - LAN and TCP/IP issues.
Environment: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4.x, 5.x, Sun Solaris 8, 9, 10, VERITAS Volume Manager, Oracle 11G, Samba, Oracle 

Creation of VMs, cloning and migrations of the VMs on VMware vSphere 4.0.
Worked with DBA team for database performance issues, network related issue on Linux / Unix Servers and with vendors for hardware related issues.

Perform hardware configuration, operating system loads, and assist with troubleshooting installation issues.

Develop and maintain cooperative and collaborative relationships with networking, storage, software development, and project management teams
Monitor production systems, applications and network performance through the use of various Network Management and Application Monitoring Tools
Develop tools/scripts to automate integration with other IT tools in support of accurate asset management, cyber reporting capabilities and to manage licenses
Work with software developers and Quality Assurance to seamlessly migrate applications from development to QA and production
Provides support to customers running RedHat Enterprise Linux on their workstations and simulation servers
Indentify and drive continual improvement program in UNIX environment and improve the service efficiency
Working closely with other IT departments to help determine and develop systems that will be implemented
EDUCATION

