Self 

Monitoring of infrastruture my passion with alerts and escalation 
Managed 50+  Members and training to internall organization 
Team Building and Managing responisibility 

I myself calling Tech Geeth because I am obsessed with Learning, planning, smart work, Result.

In my career, I have been fortunate enough to experience multiple things like starting up nearbuy.com, making it grow to $100Mn in annual sales, building a personal brand with 3 Mn+ followers, investing in startups, acting as a mentor and advisor to founders, speaking at leading colleges and organizations, being featured on the list of ‘Fortune 40 under 40’. I attribute much of these experiences to how I run my day, every day.


I call myself a Productivity Geek because I am obsessed with systems, planning, and smart work. In my career, I have been fortunate enough to experience multiple things like starting up nearbuy.com, making it grow to $100Mn in annual sales, building a personal brand with 3 Mn+ followers, investing in startups, acting as a mentor and advisor to founders, speaking at leading colleges and organizations, being featured on the list of ‘Fortune 40 under 40’. I attribute much of these experiences to how I run my day, every day.


I attribute much of these experiences to how I run my day, every day.
While most of us feel lost and feel like we are wasting time, I have, over the past 20 years, built a wonderful relationship with time.


Every single day, I am able to:
1. Meditate
2. Read books
3. Practice singing
4. Work out
5. Write a blog
6. Create videos for YouTube and Instagram
7. Connect with founders
8. Spend time with 18-30yr olds, sharing my experience with them
9. Speak at leading events and organization
10. Conduct online courses


I know, you are likely to think, “Oh you have made your money. So it’s easy for you to do all of these things now.”The truth is – I was like this, even back in school.I used to maintain a record of where I spent my time, every hour!Because I realized, if I do not know how to manage my time, I will never be able to manage anything else!

